# CaseStudy-BellaBeat
CASE STUDY: BELLABEAT FITNESS DATA ANALYSIS 
Author: Jacqueline Rediger
Date: July 29, 2023

This case study deminstrates the six steps of the data analysis process:
* Ask
* Prepare
* Process
* Analyze
* Share
* Act


Introduction 

BellaBeat is a high-tech company that manufactures health-focused smart products including the BellaBeat App, Leaf, Time, Spring. BellaBeat also offers a BellaBeat membership that offers a subscription-based membership program for users giving them 24/7 access to fully personalized guidance on nutrition, activity, sleep, health
and beauty, and mindfulness based on their lifestyle and goals.
BellaBeat has set their focus on creating a tech-driven wellness company for women around the world since 2013 and opened office doors around the world by 2016.


                                                      1. ASK


BUSINESS TASK: Analyze Fitbit data to gain insight and help guide marketing strategy for Bellabeat to grow as a global player.
Key Stakeholders: 
* Urška Sršen: Bellabeat’s cofounder and Chief Creative Officer
* Sando Mur: Mathematician and Bellabeat’s cofounder; key member of the Bellabeat executive team
* Bellabeat marketing analytics team



                                                     2. PREPARE


Data Source: 30 participants FitBit Fitness Tracker Data from Mobius: [Dataset Link](https://www.kaggle.com/arashnic/fitbit)
The dataset provided 18 .CSV files. 
* This dataset is under CC0: Public Domain license meaning the creator has waive his right to the work under the copyright law.
* Thirty eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal
tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring.


The data follows an ROCCC approch:

* Reliability : dataset was collected from 30 FitBit users who complied consent to use personal tracker data and generated by from a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk. 
* Originality : The data is from 30 FitBit users who agreed to a personal tracker, third party data collected using Amazon Mechanical Turk.
* Comprehensive : dataset contains multiple fields on daily activity intensity, calories used, daily steps taken, daily sleep time and weight record. The dataset is limited and most data is recorded during certain days of the week.
* Current : Data was collects from the time from of March 2016 through May 2016. The data is not current in 2023, so the way users may use their FitBits now might have changed.
* Cited : data collector and source is well documented.  (CC0: Public Domain, dataset made available through Mobius)

                                                  3. PROCESS


  Google spreadsheet and R Studio Cloud (PositCloud) will be used to process the data as the tool functionality fits the purpose.

Data cleaning
sleepDay_merged.csv and weightLogInfo_merged.csv are loaded into Google sheet for data cleaning. The fields “SleepDay” and “Date” were not correctly formatted. The following steps has been done:

The date column has been select and format to ‘Date’ using spreadsheet function
Time in the column has been removed as time is irrelevant in this analysis

Data integrity
The selected data has been loaded into R Studio for analysis. The following queries have been run to check the number of unique Id in each table

 dim(sleep_day)
sum(is.na(sleep_day))
sum(duplicated(sleep_day))
sleep_day <- sleep_day[!duplicated(sleep_day), ]



